All right let's go ahead and build our gem.
So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to add some color toward gem.
So let's go ahead and select the shape that makes up the gym background which is the one with the gradient
on it.
So go ahead and select that shape on the layer and then we're going to add a new layer above that.
And on this layer we're going to go ahead and fill it in with whatever color we want.
Our gem to be so in this case I want my gym to be an awkward blue so I'm going to come into my blues
and I don't want to make this completely saturated but some are but there should be good.
And then I'm to go ahead and fill that in next.
Let's go ahead and change the blunt mode on this layer from normal to overlay.
And then if you want to adjust your color to the exact color you want turn on your hue and saturation
panel by hitting control you or command you.
And then you can go ahead and change the color by dragging the hue across this bar.
So if you want to yellow or orange.
But I'm going to keep my blue.
You can also play with the saturation Meinzer and pretty saturated but that's what it would look like
at full saturation less saturation.
But I'm going to keep it about where I'm at.
And you can also play with the lightness and the darkness.
So I might actually bring mine down just a little bit darker.
OK.
Great.
Next let's add in our highlights so I'm going to add a new layer above this and then I'm going to switch
over to the color white and then I want to make sure I'm on a soft edged brush so I'm on this brush
right here.
And then I'm going to bring my bra size up like so to about that size and I'm going to start painting
in my highlight.
I also want to bring my brush opacity down to 10 percent so I had the number one on my keyboard and
then I can start painting right here just like so once I get a big area painted in like so I'm going
to bring my brushes down a little bit more and then I can continue painting in that area then I'll bring
it down a little bit more and continue painting.
And that I'll bring me down just a little bit more and continue painting.
Great.
So we wanted to be a pretty soft edge.
Next let's go ahead and move down here to this bottom area and we're going to go ahead and paint around
the edge like so and we'll just keep doing that until we get another nice highlight down here.
And I have this coming around a little bit too far up.
So don't go ahead and switch over to my race to make sure you're on a soft edge brush also.
And I'm going bring my brush past my brush size down.
I'm going to go ahead and erase away some of that.
Like so now lastly I'm going go ahead and switch back over to my brush and put my brush capacity at
100 percent and I'm going to go ahead and paint in a spot like so because I want that to be my main
highlight point on my jewel.
All right.
Creating a jewel for this project is that simple.
And you can see when we zoom out it looks pretty dang realistic.
Now we can also play around once again what the coloring down here so we can hit control you and we
can change that color to see what it looks like with those highlights now.
But I'm going to keep it at my original color and I might darken a little bit more and bring up the
saturation somewhere about there.
OK great.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you learn how to create the highlights and the color for your jewel.
You also learn how you can use your hue and saturation panel to adjust the colors of your gem in the
next lecture.
We're going to go ahead and place some objects inside of our gem.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I look forward to seeing you in the next one.